 
### What I'm doing now
I am an PhD researcher in History and Philosophy of Science at the [Pence Lab](https://pencelab.be/) at the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium. I am at a philosophy department but I consider myself as a historian. I study the concept of 'biodiversity' in non-scientific settings, analysing the diverse meanings and uses that different speakers (politicians, businesses, NGOs, invested scientists) make of it in their particular context. My PhD is part of a larger project that aims at clarifying the '[Taxonomic Disorder](https://blog.pencelab.be/2021/mapping-and-responding-to-taxonomic-disorder/)' in conservation biology.  
  
### The previous thing I did
In 2020 I graduated with Cum Laude from the research master History and Philosophy of Science at Utrecht University. My master dissertation is a history of 1970s molecular research. In a nutshell, what I wrote was a history of the identity of the molecular scientist — the ethical, social, political, and epistemic commitments as told and negotiated in the magazine _Nature_ as a sort of forum for self-reflection and self-construction. I worked on 1) the topic of science as a consumption, especially in regard to the commercialization of laboratory materials; 2) the topic of science policy and the social responsibility of scientists; and 3) the topic of workplace safety and research ethics in the context of the debates over the safety of recombinant DNA technology. The title of the dissertation is ‘To be a molecular scientist. The negotiation of epistemic and social virtues in 1970s _Nature_’s marketplace’. The research and writing processes were fun and challenging. One of the most enjoyable chapters to write was one in which I investigated what I called 'scientific advertisements' in _Nature_. These were ads for laboratory devices, and I was mostly interested in those targeting molecular biologists, so I looked at ads for microscopes, enzymes, cell-counters, freezers, but also for free catalogues and user manuals. I argued that by looking at the advertisement as a commercial visual object, we get a glimpse of _what it was like to be_ a molecular scientist. If you are curious, the full text is available in Open Access at the [Student Theses Archive](https://dspace.library.uu.nl/handle/1874/400784) of Utrecht University.  
  
### Just a bit further back
Before studying History and Philosophy of Science, I had I studied an MSc in Neuroscience in Strasbourg and a BSc in Biological Sciences in Maastricht. But for a long time, I think I had always been interested on how people communicate within and about science. In the big-picture, I want to understand how knowledge is (and isn't) politically put into effect. The theme of communication of knowledge is deeply embedded on the practices of sciences, such as how researchers read, write, and commercialise research objects.  
  
  
### If you are interested
_[you can download my formal CV here](https://github.com/oliviodare/CV/blob/main/BautistaPerpinya_CV.pdf)_
